NoSQL Databases are not replacement for RDBMS.

SQL is good at ACID
A - Atomic
A group of statements executed in a transaction are atomic means either all statements will execute or none.
C - Consistent
Once any write transaction is committed then any subsequent reads will return updated data.
I - Isolation
Once the transaction is executing any other transactions will not interfer with the running transactions, means any transaction will not see stale data that is updated by other transaction.
This is achieved by applying locks on the table.
Default Transaction mode in RDBMS is Read Committed.
D - Durable
When a transaction committed then the data is definitely written to disk any database restart/crash will not loose data.

Neo4j is hard to shard as it is difficult to put some nodes in one machine and some nodes in another machine and performance will be impacted.
Neo4j enterprise has replication.
Because of not having sharding capability Neo4j supports ACID properties.
Neo4j is not primarily designed for Scalability.
Neo4j is useful when you want to work with deep relationships.

** MongoDB doesn’t have transactions and this as per design to achieve horizontal scalability i.e., sharing
ACID is not supported in mongo.

Writing a single document in mongo is an Atomic operation, but multiple documents documents is not atomic. This is achieved by temporarily locking the database.

Mongo Write by default is not durable because the write operations will happen after a specific delay and this can configured to Journal so that it is durable.

For Good Performance data should fit into Working Set i.e., RAM


In Redis Transactions are not Atmoic and we see if one statement in a transaction fails then it will go and execute rest of the transactions.

But we can have Isolation in Redis 

In Redis Durability can be achieved
By default redis will write the data to disk at periodic intervals
but we can configure this one to be fully durable.
AOF(Append only File) can sync the database to disk after every write operation.


In order to achieve high performance through horizontally scalability then we need make compromises on some of the ACID properties and this is captured in a term called BASE
B - Basic
A - Availability
S - Soft State
E - Eventually Consistency

Some times we have to compromise on Availability in order for the data to be consistent.
This is seen in Mongo when the primary is done then entire database is not available as there is election for the new primary and the data is consistent.

Soft State - This means we need compromise on durability in order to get performance.
This we have seen in Mongo and Redis as there default configuration even though those can be tweaked to get full durability, but at a cost of performance.

Eventually Consistency - Some Databases are designed for Full Availability at cost of data consistency, means the system will be fully available but all the instances may not have up to data.